The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Strange Case Of Dr. Jekyll And Mr. Hyde, by Robert Louis StevensonThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States andmost other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictionswhatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the termsof the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online atwww.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, youwill have to check the laws of the country where you are located beforeusing this eBook.

Title:The Strange Case Of Dr. Jekyll And Mr. HydeAuthor: Robert Louis StevensonRelease Date: October 31, 1992 [eBook #43][Most recently updated: March 19, 2021]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: UTF-8Produced by: David Widger*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STRANGE CASE OF DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE ***The Strange Case Of Dr. Jekyll And Mr. Hydeby Robert Louis StevensonContents STORY OF THE DOOR SEARCH FOR MR. HYDE DR. JEKYLL WAS QUITE AT EASE THE CAREW MURDER CASE INCIDENT OF THE LETTER INCIDENT OF DR. LANYON INCIDENT AT THE WINDOW THE LAST NIGHT DR. LANYON’S NARRATIVE HENRY JEKYLL’S FULL STATEMENT OF THE CASESTORY OF THE DOORMr. Utterson the lawyer was a man of a rugged countenance that wasnever lighted by a smile; cold, scanty and embarrassed in discourse;backward in sentiment; lean, long, dusty, dreary and yet somehowlovable. At friendly meetings, and when the wine was to his taste,something eminently human beaconed from his eye; something indeed whichnever found its way into his talk, but which spoke not only in thesesilent symbols of the after-dinner face, but more often and loudly inthe acts of his life. He was austere with himself; drank gin when hewas alone, to mortify a taste for vintages; and though he enjoyed thetheatre, had not crossed the doors of one for twenty years. But he hadan approved tolerance for others; sometimes wondering, almost withenvy, at the high pressure of spirits involved in their misdeeds; andin any extremity inclined to help rather than to reprove. “I incline toCain’s heresy,” he used to say quaintly: “I let my brother go to thedevil in his own way.” In this character, it was frequently his fortuneto be the last reputable acquaintance and the last good influence inthe lives of downgoing men. And to such as these, so long as they cameabout his chambers, he never marked a shade of change in his demeanour.

Nodoubt the feat was easy to Mr. Utterson; for he was undemonstrativeat the best, and even his friendship seemed to be founded in a similarcatholicity of good-nature. It is the mark of a modest man to accepthis friendly circle ready-made from the hands of opportunity; and thatwas the lawyer’s way. His friends were those of his own blood or thosewhom he had known the longest; his affections, like ivy, were thegrowth of time, they implied no aptness in the object. Hence, no doubtthe bond that united him to Mr. Richard Enfield, his distant kinsman,the well-known man about 