town. It was a nut to crack for many, whatthese two could see in each other, or what subject they could find incommon. It was reported by those who encountered them in their Sundaywalks, that they said nothing, looked singularly dull and would hailwith obvious relief the appearance of a friend. For all that, the twomen put the greatest store by these excursions, counted them the chiefjewel of each week, and not only set aside occasions of pleasure, buteven resisted the calls of business, that they might enjoy them
uninterrupted.

Itchanced on one of these rambles that their way led them down aby-street in a busy quarter of London. The street was small and what iscalled quiet, but it drove a thriving trade on the weekdays. Theinhabitants were all doing well, it seemed and all emulously hoping todo better still, and laying out the surplus of their grains incoquetry; so that the shop fronts stood along that thoroughfare with anair of invitation, like rows of smiling saleswomen. Even on Sunday,when it veiled its more florid charms and lay comparatively empty ofpassage, the street shone out in contrast to its dingy neighbourhood,like a fire in a forest; and with its freshly painted shutters,well-polished brasses, and general cleanliness and gaiety of note,instantly caught and pleased the eye of the passenger.

Twodoors from one corner, on the left hand going east the line wasbroken by the entry of a court; and just at that point a certainsinister block of building thrust forward its gable on the street. Itwas two storeys high; showed no window, nothing but a door on the lowerstorey and a blind forehead of discoloured wall on the upper; and borein every feature, the marks of prolonged and sordid negligence. Thedoor, which was equipped with neither bell nor knocker, was blisteredand distained. Tramps slouched into the recess and struck matches onthe panels; children kept shop upon the steps; the schoolboy had triedhis knife on the mouldings; and for close on a generation, no one hadappeared to drive away these random visitors or to repair their
ravages.

Mr.Enfield and the lawyer were on the other side of the by-street; butwhen they came abreast of the entry, the former lifted up his cane and
pointed.

“Didyou ever remark that door?” he asked; and when his companion hadreplied in the affirmative, “It is connected in my mind,” added he,“with a very odd story.”“Indeed?” said Mr. Utterson, with a slight change of voice, “and whatwas that?”“Well, it was this way,” returned Mr. Enfield: “I was coming home fromsome place at the end of the world, about three o’clock of a blackwinter morning, and my way lay through a part of town where there wasliterally nothing to be seen but lamps. Street after street and all thefolks asleep—street after street, all lighted up as if for a processionand all as empty as a church—till at last I got into that state of mindwhen a man listens and listens and begins to long for the sight of apoliceman. All at 