as they are. It turns me cold to think of this creaturestealing like a thief to Harry’s bedside; poor Harry, what a wakening!And the danger of it; for if this Hyde suspects the existence of thewill, he may grow impatient to inherit. Ay, I must put my shoulders tothe wheel—if Jekyll will but let me,” he added, “if Jekyll will onlylet me.” For once more he saw before his mind’s eye, as clear astransparency, the strange clauses of the will.



DR.JEKYLL WAS QUITE AT EASEA fortnight later, by excellent good fortune, the doctor gave one ofhis pleasant dinners to some five or six old cronies, all intelligent,reputable men and all judges of good wine; and Mr. Utterson socontrived that he remained behind after the others had departed. Thiswas no new arrangement, but a thing that had befallen many scores oftimes. Where Utterson was liked, he was liked well. Hosts loved todetain the dry lawyer, when the light-hearted and loose-tongued hadalready their foot on the threshold; they liked to sit a while in hisunobtrusive company, practising for solitude, sobering their minds inthe man’s rich silence after the expense and strain of gaiety. To thisrule, Dr. Jekyll was no exception; and as he now sat on the oppositeside of the fire—a large, well-made, smooth-faced man of fifty, withsomething of a slyish cast perhaps, but every mark of capacity andkindness—you could see by his looks that he cherished for Mr. Uttersona sincere and warm affection.

“Ihave been wanting to speak to you, Jekyll,” began the latter. “Youknow that will of yours?”A close observer might have gathered that the topic was distasteful;but the doctor carried it off gaily. “My poor Utterson,” said he, “youare unfortunate in such a client. I never saw a man so distressed asyou were by my will; unless it were that hide-bound pedant, Lanyon, atwhat he called my scientific heresies. O, I know he’s a good fellow—youneedn’t frown—an excellent fellow, and I always mean to see more ofhim; but a hide-bound pedant for all that; an ignorant, blatant pedant.
Iwas never more disappointed in any man than Lanyon.”“You know I never approved of it,” pursued Utterson, ruthlesslydisregarding the fresh topic.

“Mywill? Yes, certainly, I know that,” said the doctor, a triflesharply. “You have told me so.”“Well, I tell you so again,” continued the lawyer. “I have beenlearning something of young Hyde.”The large handsome face of Dr. Jekyll grew pale to the very lips, andthere came a blackness about his eyes. “I do not care to hear more,”said he. “This is a matter I thought we had agreed to drop.”“What I heard was abominable,” said Utterson.

“Itcan make no change. You do not understand my position,” returnedthe doctor, with a certain incoherency of manner. “I am painfullysituated, Utterson; my position is a very strange—a very strange one.
Itis one of those affairs that cannot be mended by talking.”“Jekyll,” said Utterson, “you know me: I am a man to be trusted. Make aclean breast of this in confidence; and I make no 