doubt I can get youout of it.”“My good Utterson,” said the doctor, “this is very good of you, this isdownright good of you, and I cannot find words to thank you in. Ibelieve you fully; I would trust you before any man alive, ay, beforemyself, if I could make the choice; but indeed it isn’t what you fancy;it is not as bad as that; and just to put your good heart at rest, Iwill tell you one thing: the moment I choose, I can be rid of Mr. Hyde.
Igive you my hand upon that; and I thank you again and again; and Iwill just add one little word, Utterson, that I’m sure you’ll take ingood part: this is a private matter, and I beg of you to let it sleep.”Utterson reflected a little, looking in the fire.

“Ihave no doubt you are perfectly right,” he said at last, getting tohis feet.

“Well,but since we have touched upon this business, and for the lasttime I hope,” continued the doctor, “there is one point I should likeyou to understand. I have really a very great interest in poor Hyde. Iknow you have seen him; he told me so; and I fear he was rude. But I dosincerely take a great, a very great interest in that young man; and ifI am taken away, Utterson, I wish you to promise me that you will bearwith him and get his rights for him. I think you would, if you knewall; and it would be a weight off my mind if you would promise.”“I can’t pretend that I shall ever like him,” said the lawyer.

“Idon’t ask that,” pleaded Jekyll, laying his hand upon the other’sarm; “I only ask for justice; I only ask you to help him for my sake,when I am no longer here.”Utterson heaved an irrepressible sigh. “Well,” said he, “I promise.”THE CAREW MURDER CASENearly a year later, in the month of October, 18—, London was startledby a crime of singular ferocity and rendered all the more notable bythe high position of the victim. The details were few and startling. Amaid servant living alone in a house not far from the river, had goneupstairs to bed about eleven. Although a fog rolled over the city inthe small hours, the early part of the night was cloudless, and thelane, which the maid’s window overlooked, was brilliantly lit by thefull moon. It seems she was romantically given, for she sat down uponher box, which stood immediately under the window, and fell into adream of musing. Never (she used to say, with streaming tears, when shenarrated that experience), never had she felt more at peace with allmen or thought more kindly of the world. And as she so sat she becameaware of an aged beautiful gentleman with white hair, drawing nearalong the lane; and advancing to meet him, another and very smallgentleman, to whom at first she paid less attention. When they had comewithin speech (which was just under the maid’s eyes) the older 