manbowed and accosted the other with a very pretty manner of politeness.
Itdid not seem as if the subject of his address were of greatimportance; indeed, from his pointing, it sometimes appeared as if hewere only inquiring his way; but the moon shone on his face as hespoke, and the girl was pleased to watch it, it seemed to breathe suchan innocent and old-world kindness of disposition, yet with somethinghigh too, as of a well-founded self-content. Presently her eye wanderedto the other, and she was surprised to recognise in him a certain Mr.
Hyde,who had once visited her master and for whom she had conceived adislike. He had in his hand a heavy cane, with which he was trifling;but he answered never a word, and seemed to listen with anill-contained impatience. And then all of a sudden he broke out in agreat flame of anger, stamping with his foot, brandishing the cane, andcarrying on (as the maid described it) like a madman. The old gentlemantook a step back, with the air of one very much surprised and a triflehurt; and at that Mr. Hyde broke out of all bounds and clubbed him tothe earth. And next moment, with ape-like fury, he was trampling hisvictim under foot and hailing down a storm of blows, under which thebones were audibly shattered and the body jumped upon the roadway. Atthe horror of these sights and sounds, the maid fainted.

Itwas two o’clock when she came to herself and called for the police.
Themurderer was gone long ago; but there lay his victim in the middleof the lane, incredibly mangled. The stick with which the deed had beendone, although it was of some rare and very tough and heavy wood, hadbroken in the middle under the stress of this insensate cruelty; andone splintered half had rolled in the neighbouring gutter—the other,without doubt, had been carried away by the murderer. A purse and goldwatch were found upon the victim: but no cards or papers, except asealed and stamped envelope, which he had been probably carrying to thepost, and which bore the name and address of Mr. Utterson.

Thiswas brought to the lawyer the next morning, before he was out ofbed; and he had no sooner seen it and been told the circumstances, thanhe shot out a solemn lip. “I shall say nothing till I have seen thebody,” said he; “this may be very serious. Have the kindness to waitwhile I dress.” And with the same grave countenance he hurried throughhis breakfast and drove to the police station, whither the body hadbeen carried. As soon as he came into the cell, he nodded.

“Yes,”said he, “I recognise him. I am sorry to say that this is SirDanvers Carew.”“Good God, sir,” exclaimed the officer, “is it possible?” And the nextmoment his eye lighted up with professional ambition. “This will make adeal of noise,” he said. “And perhaps you can help us to the man.” Andhe briefly narrated what the maid had seen, and showed the broken
stick.

Mr.Utterson 