had already quailed at the name of Hyde; but when thestick was laid before him, he could doubt no longer; broken andbattered as it was, he recognised it for one that he had himselfpresented many years before to Henry Jekyll.

“Isthis Mr. Hyde a person of small stature?” he inquired.

“Particularlysmall and particularly wicked-looking, is what the maidcalls him,” said the officer.

Mr.Utterson reflected; and then, raising his head, “If you will comewith me in my cab,” he said, “I think I can take you to his house.”It was by this time about nine in the morning, and the first fog of theseason. A great chocolate-coloured pall lowered over heaven, but thewind was continually charging and routing these embattled vapours; sothat as the cab crawled from street to street, Mr. Utterson beheld amarvelous number of degrees and hues of twilight; for here it would bedark like the back-end of evening; and there would be a glow of a rich,lurid brown, like the light of some strange conflagration; and here,for a moment, the fog would be quite broken up, and a haggard shaft ofdaylight would glance in between the swirling wreaths. The dismalquarter of Soho seen under these changing glimpses, with its muddyways, and slatternly passengers, and its lamps, which had never beenextinguished or had been kindled afresh to combat this mournfulreinvasion of darkness, seemed, in the lawyer’s eyes, like a districtof some city in a nightmare. The thoughts of his mind, besides, were ofthe gloomiest dye; and when he glanced at the companion of his drive,he was conscious of some touch of that terror of the law and the law’sofficers, which may at times assail the most honest.

Asthe cab drew up before the address indicated, the fog lifted alittle and showed him a dingy street, a gin palace, a low French eatinghouse, a shop for the retail of penny numbers and twopenny salads, manyragged children huddled in the doorways, and many women of manydifferent nationalities passing out, key in hand, to have a morningglass; and the next moment the fog settled down again upon that part,as brown as umber, and cut him off from his blackguardly surroundings.
Thiswas the home of Henry Jekyll’s favourite; of a man who was heir toa quarter of a million sterling.

Anivory-faced and silvery-haired old woman opened the door. She had anevil face, smoothed by hypocrisy: but her manners were excellent. Yes,she said, this was Mr. Hyde’s, but he was not at home; he had been inthat night very late, but he had gone away again in less than an hour;there was nothing strange in that; his habits were very irregular, andhe was often absent; for instance, it was nearly two months since shehad seen him till yesterday.

“Verywell, then, we wish to see his rooms,” said the lawyer; and whenthe woman began to declare it was impossible, “I had better tell youwho this person is,” he added. “This is Inspector Newcomen of ScotlandYard.”A flash of odious joy appeared upon the woman’s face. “Ah!” 