said she,“he is in trouble! What has he done?”Mr. Utterson and the inspector exchanged glances. “He don’t seem a verypopular character,” observed the latter. “And now, my good woman, justlet me and this gentleman have a look about us.”In the whole extent of the house, which but for the old woman remainedotherwise empty, Mr. Hyde had only used a couple of rooms; but thesewere furnished with luxury and good taste. A closet was filled withwine; the plate was of silver, the napery elegant; a good picture hungupon the walls, a gift (as Utterson supposed) from Henry Jekyll, whowas much of a connoisseur; and the carpets were of many plies andagreeable in colour. At this moment, however, the rooms bore every markof having been recently and hurriedly ransacked; clothes lay about thefloor, with their pockets inside out; lock-fast drawers stood open; andon the hearth there lay a pile of grey ashes, as though many papers hadbeen burned. From these embers the inspector disinterred the butt endof a green cheque book, which had resisted the action of the fire; theother half of the stick was found behind the door; and as this clinchedhis suspicions, the officer declared himself delighted. A visit to thebank, where several thousand pounds were found to be lying to themurderer’s credit, completed his gratification.

“Youmay depend upon it, sir,” he told Mr. Utterson: “I have him in myhand. He must have lost his head, or he never would have left the stickor, above all, burned the cheque book. Why, money’s life to the man. Wehave nothing to do but wait for him at the bank, and get out thehandbills.”This last, however, was not so easy of accomplishment; for Mr. Hyde hadnumbered few familiars—even the master of the servant maid had onlyseen him twice; his family could nowhere be traced; he had never beenphotographed; and the few who could describe him differed widely, ascommon observers will. Only on one point were they agreed; and that wasthe haunting sense of unexpressed deformity with which the fugitiveimpressed his beholders.



INCIDENTOF THE LETTERIt was late in the afternoon, when Mr. Utterson found his way to Dr.
Jekyll’sdoor, where he was at once admitted by Poole, and carried downby the kitchen offices and across a yard which had once been a garden,to the building which was indifferently known as the laboratory ordissecting rooms. The doctor had bought the house from the heirs of acelebrated surgeon; and his own tastes being rather chemical thananatomical, had changed the destination of the block at the bottom ofthe garden. It was the first time that the lawyer had been received inthat part of his friend’s quarters; and he eyed the dingy, windowlessstructure with curiosity, and gazed round with a distasteful sense ofstrangeness as he crossed the theatre, once crowded with eager studentsand now lying gaunt and silent, the tables laden with chemicalapparatus, the floor strewn with crates and littered with packingstraw, and the light falling dimly through the foggy cupola. At thefurther end, a flight of stairs 