mounted to a door covered with redbaize; and through this, Mr. Utterson was at last received into thedoctor’s cabinet. It was a large room fitted round with glass presses,furnished, among other things, with a cheval-glass and a businesstable, and looking out upon the court by three dusty windows barredwith iron. The fire burned in the grate; a lamp was set lighted on thechimney shelf, for even in the houses the fog began to lie thickly; andthere, close up to the warmth, sat Dr. Jekyll, looking deathly sick. Hedid not rise to meet his visitor, but held out a cold hand and bade himwelcome in a changed voice.

“Andnow,” said Mr. Utterson, as soon as Poole had left them, “you haveheard the news?”The doctor shuddered. “They were crying it in the square,” he said. “Iheard them in my dining-room.”“One word,” said the lawyer. “Carew was my client, but so are you, andI want to know what I am doing. You have not been mad enough to hidethis fellow?”“Utterson, I swear to God,” cried the doctor, “I swear to God I willnever set eyes on him again. I bind my honour to you that I am donewith him in this world. It is all at an end. And indeed he does notwant my help; you do not know him as I do; he is safe, he is quitesafe; mark my words, he will never more be heard of.”The lawyer listened gloomily; he did not like his friend’s feverishmanner. “You seem pretty sure of him,” said he; “and for your sake, Ihope you may be right. If it came to a trial, your name might appear.”“I am quite sure of him,” replied Jekyll; “I have grounds for certaintythat I cannot share with any one. But there is one thing on which youmay advise me. I have—I have received a letter; and I am at a losswhether I should show it to the police. I should like to leave it inyour hands, Utterson; you would judge wisely, I am sure; I have sogreat a trust in you.”“You fear, I suppose, that it might lead to his detection?” asked the
lawyer.

“No,”said the other. “I cannot say that I care what becomes of Hyde; Iam quite done with him. I was thinking of my own character, which thishateful business has rather exposed.”Utterson ruminated awhile; he was surprised at his friend’sselfishness, and yet relieved by it. “Well,” said he, at last, “let mesee the letter.”The letter was written in an odd, upright hand and signed “EdwardHyde”: and it signified, briefly enough, that the writer’s benefactor,Dr. Jekyll, whom he had long so unworthily repaid for a thousandgenerosities, need labour under no alarm for his safety, as he hadmeans of escape on which he placed a sure dependence. The lawyer likedthis letter well enough; it put a better colour on the intimacy than hehad looked for; and he blamed himself for some of his past suspicions.

“Haveyou the envelope?” he asked.

“Iburned it,” replied Jekyll, “before I thought what 