I was about. Butit bore no postmark. The note was handed in.”“Shall I keep this and sleep upon it?” asked Utterson.

“Iwish you to judge for me entirely,” was the reply. “I have lostconfidence in myself.”“Well, I shall consider,” returned the lawyer. “And now one word more:it was Hyde who dictated the terms in your will about thatdisappearance?”The doctor seemed seized with a qualm of faintness; he shut his mouthtight and nodded.

“Iknew it,” said Utterson. “He meant to murder you. You had a fineescape.”“I have had what is far more to the purpose,” returned the doctorsolemnly: “I have had a lesson—O God, Utterson, what a lesson I havehad!” And he covered his face for a moment with his hands.

Onhis way out, the lawyer stopped and had a word or two with Poole.
“Bythe bye,” said he, “there was a letter handed in to-day: what wasthe messenger like?” But Poole was positive nothing had come except bypost; “and only circulars by that,” he added.

Thisnews sent off the visitor with his fears renewed. Plainly theletter had come by the laboratory door; possibly, indeed, it had beenwritten in the cabinet; and if that were so, it must be differentlyjudged, and handled with the more caution. The newsboys, as he went,were crying themselves hoarse along the footways: “Special edition.
Shockingmurder of an M.P.” That was the funeral oration of one friendand client; and he could not help a certain apprehension lest the goodname of another should be sucked down in the eddy of the scandal. Itwas, at least, a ticklish decision that he had to make; andself-reliant as he was by habit, he began to cherish a longing foradvice. It was not to be had directly; but perhaps, he thought, itmight be fished for.

Presentlyafter, he sat on one side of his own hearth, with Mr. Guest,his head clerk, upon the other, and midway between, at a nicelycalculated distance from the fire, a bottle of a particular old winethat had long dwelt unsunned in the foundations of his house. The fogstill slept on the wing above the drowned city, where the lampsglimmered like carbuncles; and through the muffle and smother of thesefallen clouds, the procession of the town’s life was still rolling inthrough the great arteries with a sound as of a mighty wind. But theroom was gay with firelight. In the bottle the acids were long agoresolved; the imperial dye had softened with time, as the colour growsricher in stained windows; and the glow of hot autumn afternoons onhillside vineyards, was ready to be set free and to disperse the fogsof London. Insensibly the lawyer melted. There was no man from whom hekept fewer secrets than Mr. Guest; and he was not always sure that hekept as many as he meant. Guest had often been on business to thedoctor’s; he knew Poole; he could scarce have failed to hear of Mr.
Hyde’sfamiliarity about the house; he might draw conclusions: was itnot as well, then, that he should see a letter 