which put that mysteryto right? and above all since Guest, being a great student and criticof handwriting, would consider the step natural and obliging? Theclerk, besides, was a man of counsel; he could scarce read so strange adocument without dropping a remark; and by that remark Mr. Uttersonmight shape his future course.

“Thisis a sad business about Sir Danvers,” he said.

“Yes,sir, indeed. It has elicited a great deal of public feeling,”returned Guest. “The man, of course, was mad.”“I should like to hear your views on that,” replied Utterson. “I have adocument here in his handwriting; it is between ourselves, for I scarceknow what to do about it; it is an ugly business at the best. But thereit is; quite in your way: a murderer’s autograph.”Guest’s eyes brightened, and he sat down at once and studied it withpassion. “No sir,” he said: “not mad; but it is an odd hand.”“And by all accounts a very odd writer,” added the lawyer.

Justthen the servant entered with a note.

“Isthat from Dr. Jekyll, sir?” inquired the clerk. “I thought I knewthe writing. Anything private, Mr. Utterson?”“Only an invitation to dinner. Why? Do you want to see it?”“One moment. I thank you, sir;” and the clerk laid the two sheets ofpaper alongside and sedulously compared their contents. “Thank you,sir,” he said at last, returning both; “it’s a very interestingautograph.”There was a pause, during which Mr. Utterson struggled with himself.
“Whydid you compare them, Guest?” he inquired suddenly.

“Well,sir,” returned the clerk, “there’s a rather singularresemblance; the two hands are in many points identical: onlydifferently sloped.”“Rather quaint,” said Utterson.

“Itis, as you say, rather quaint,” returned Guest.

“Iwouldn’t speak of this note, you know,” said the master.

“No,sir,” said the clerk. “I understand.”But no sooner was Mr. Utterson alone that night, than he locked thenote into his safe, where it reposed from that time forward. “What!” hethought. “Henry Jekyll forge for a murderer!” And his blood ran cold inhis veins.



INCIDENTOF DR. LANYONTime ran on; thousands of pounds were offered in reward, for the deathof Sir Danvers was resented as a public injury; but Mr. Hyde haddisappeared out of the ken of the police as though he had neverexisted. Much of his past was unearthed, indeed, and all disreputable:tales came out of the man’s cruelty, at once so callous and violent; ofhis vile life, of his strange associates, of the hatred that seemed tohave surrounded his career; but of his present whereabouts, not awhisper. From the time he had left the house in Soho on the morning ofthe murder, he was simply blotted out; and gradually, as time drew on,Mr. Utterson began to recover from the hotness of his alarm, and togrow more at quiet with himself. The death of Sir Danvers was, to hisway of thinking, more than paid for by the disappearance of Mr. Hyde.
Nowthat that evil influence had been withdrawn, a new life began forDr. Jekyll. He came out of his seclusion, renewed relations with hisfriends, became once more their 