familiar guest and entertainer; andwhilst he had always been known for charities, he was now no lessdistinguished for religion. He was busy, he was much in the open air,he did good; his face seemed to open and brighten, as if with an inwardconsciousness of service; and for more than two months, the doctor wasat peace.

Onthe 8th of January Utterson had dined at the doctor’s with a smallparty; Lanyon had been there; and the face of the host had looked fromone to the other as in the old days when the trio were inseparablefriends. On the 12th, and again on the 14th, the door was shut againstthe lawyer. “The doctor was confined to the house,” Poole said, “andsaw no one.” On the 15th, he tried again, and was again refused; andhaving now been used for the last two months to see his friend almostdaily, he found this return of solitude to weigh upon his spirits. Thefifth night he had in Guest to dine with him; and the sixth he betookhimself to Dr. Lanyon’s.

Thereat least he was not denied admittance; but when he came in, hewas shocked at the change which had taken place in the doctor’sappearance. He had his death-warrant written legibly upon his face. Therosy man had grown pale; his flesh had fallen away; he was visiblybalder and older; and yet it was not so much these tokens of a swiftphysical decay that arrested the lawyer’s notice, as a look in the eyeand quality of manner that seemed to testify to some deep-seated terrorof the mind. It was unlikely that the doctor should fear death; and yetthat was what Utterson was tempted to suspect. “Yes,” he thought; “heis a doctor, he must know his own state and that his days are counted;and the knowledge is more than he can bear.” And yet when Uttersonremarked on his ill looks, it was with an air of great firmness thatLanyon declared himself a doomed man.

“Ihave had a shock,” he said, “and I shall never recover. It is aquestion of weeks. Well, life has been pleasant; I liked it; yes, sir,I used to like it. I sometimes think if we knew all, we should be moreglad to get away.”“Jekyll is ill, too,” observed Utterson. “Have you seen him?”But Lanyon’s face changed, and he held up a trembling hand. “I wish tosee or hear no more of Dr. Jekyll,” he said in a loud, unsteady voice.
“Iam quite done with that person; and I beg that you will spare me anyallusion to one whom I regard as dead.”“Tut, tut!” said Mr. Utterson; and then after a considerable pause,“Can’t I do anything?” he inquired. “We are three very old friends,Lanyon; we shall not live to make others.”“Nothing can be done,” returned Lanyon; “ask himself.”“He will not see me,” said the lawyer.

“Iam not surprised at that,” was the reply. “Some day, Utterson, afterI am dead, you may perhaps come to learn the right and wrong of this. Icannot tell you. And in the 