once, I saw two figures: one a little man who wasstumping along eastward at a good walk, and the other a girl of maybeeight or ten who was running as hard as she was able down a crossstreet. Well, sir, the two ran into one another naturally enough at thecorner; and then came the horrible part of the thing; for the mantrampled calmly over the child’s body and left her screaming on theground. It sounds nothing to hear, but it was hellish to see. It wasn’tlike a man; it was like some damned Juggernaut. I gave a few halloa,took to my heels, collared my gentleman, and brought him back to wherethere was already quite a group about the screaming child. He wasperfectly cool and made no resistance, but gave me one look, so uglythat it brought out the sweat on me like running. The people who hadturned out were the girl’s own family; and pretty soon, the doctor, forwhom she had been sent put in his appearance. Well, the child was notmuch the worse, more frightened, according to the sawbones; and thereyou might have supposed would be an end to it. But there was onecurious circumstance. I had taken a loathing to my gentleman at firstsight. So had the child’s family, which was only natural. But thedoctor’s case was what struck me. He was the usual cut and dryapothecary, of no particular age and colour, with a strong Edinburghaccent and about as emotional as a bagpipe. Well, sir, he was like therest of us; every time he looked at my prisoner, I saw that sawbonesturn sick and white with the desire to kill him. I knew what was in hismind, just as he knew what was in mine; and killing being out of thequestion, we did the next best. We told the man we could and would makesuch a scandal out of this as should make his name stink from one endof London to the other. If he had any friends or any credit, weundertook that he should lose them. And all the time, as we werepitching it in red hot, we were keeping the women off him as best wecould for they were as wild as harpies. I never saw a circle of suchhateful faces; and there was the man in the middle, with a kind ofblack sneering coolness—frightened too, I could see that—but carryingit off, sir, really like Satan. ‘If you choose to make capital out ofthis accident,’ said he, ‘I am naturally helpless. No gentleman butwishes to avoid a scene,’ says he. ‘Name your figure.’ Well, we screwedhim up to a hundred pounds for the child’s family; he would haveclearly liked to stick out; but there was something about the lot of usthat meant mischief, and at last he struck. The next thing was to getthe money; and where do you think he carried us but to that place withthe door?—whipped out a key, went in, and presently came back with thematter of ten pounds in gold 