and a cheque for the balance on Coutts’s,drawn payable to bearer and signed with a name that I can’t mention,though it’s one of the points of my story, but it was a name at leastvery well known and often printed. The figure was stiff; but thesignature was good for more than that if it was only genuine. I tookthe liberty of pointing out to my gentleman that the whole businesslooked apocryphal, and that a man does not, in real life, walk into acellar door at four in the morning and come out with another man’scheque for close upon a hundred pounds. But he was quite easy andsneering. ‘Set your mind at rest,’ says he, ‘I will stay with you tillthe banks open and cash the cheque myself.’ So we all set off, thedoctor, and the child’s father, and our friend and myself, and passedthe rest of the night in my chambers; and next day, when we hadbreakfasted, went in a body to the bank. I gave in the cheque myself,and said I had every reason to believe it was a forgery. Not a bit ofit. The cheque was genuine.”“Tut-tut!” said Mr. Utterson.

“Isee you feel as I do,” said Mr. Enfield. “Yes, it’s a bad story. Formy man was a fellow that nobody could have to do with, a reallydamnable man; and the person that drew the cheque is the very pink ofthe proprieties, celebrated too, and (what makes it worse) one of yourfellows who do what they call good. Blackmail, I suppose; an honest manpaying through the nose for some of the capers of his youth. Black MailHouse is what I call the place with the door, in consequence. Thougheven that, you know, is far from explaining all,” he added, and withthe words fell into a vein of musing.

Fromthis he was recalled by Mr. Utterson asking rather suddenly: “Andyou don’t know if the drawer of the cheque lives there?”“A likely place, isn’t it?” returned Mr. Enfield. “But I happen to havenoticed his address; he lives in some square or other.”“And you never asked about the—place with the door?” said Mr. Utterson.

“No,sir; I had a delicacy,” was the reply. “I feel very strongly aboutputting questions; it partakes too much of the style of the day ofjudgment. You start a question, and it’s like starting a stone. You sitquietly on the top of a hill; and away the stone goes, starting others;and presently some bland old bird (the last you would have thought of)is knocked on the head in his own back garden and the family have tochange their name. No sir, I make it a rule of mine: the more it lookslike Queer Street, the less I ask.”“A very good rule, too,” said the lawyer.

“ButI have studied the place for myself,” continued Mr. Enfield. “Itseems scarcely a house. There is no other door, and nobody goes in orout of that one but, once in a great while, the gentleman of myadventure. There are three windows looking on 