the court on the firstfloor; none below; the windows are always shut but they’re clean. Andthen there is a chimney which is generally smoking; so somebody mustlive there. And yet it’s not so sure; for the buildings are so packedtogether about the court, that it’s hard to say where one ends andanother begins.”The pair walked on again for a while in silence; and then “Enfield,”said Mr. Utterson, “that’s a good rule of yours.”“Yes, I think it is,” returned Enfield.

“Butfor all that,” continued the lawyer, “there’s one point I want toask. I want to ask the name of that man who walked over the child.”“Well,” said Mr. Enfield, “I can’t see what harm it would do. It was aman of the name of Hyde.”“Hm,” said Mr. Utterson. “What sort of a man is he to see?”“He is not easy to describe. There is something wrong with hisappearance; something displeasing, something down-right detestable. Inever saw a man I so disliked, and yet I scarce know why. He must bedeformed somewhere; he gives a strong feeling of deformity, although Icouldn’t specify the point. He’s an extraordinary looking man, and yetI really can name nothing out of the way. No, sir; I can make no handof it; I can’t describe him. And it’s not want of memory; for I declareI can see him this moment.”Mr. Utterson again walked some way in silence and obviously under aweight of consideration. “You are sure he used a key?” he inquired at
last.

“Mydear sir...” began Enfield, surprised out of himself.

“Yes,I know,” said Utterson; “I know it must seem strange. The factis, if I do not ask you the name of the other party, it is because Iknow it already. You see, Richard, your tale has gone home. If you havebeen inexact in any point you had better correct it.”“I think you might have warned me,” returned the other with a touch ofsullenness. “But I have been pedantically exact, as you call it. Thefellow had a key; and what’s more, he has it still. I saw him use itnot a week ago.”Mr. Utterson sighed deeply but said never a word; and the young manpresently resumed. “Here is another lesson to say nothing,” said he. “Iam ashamed of my long tongue. Let us make a bargain never to refer tothis again.”“With all my heart,” said the lawyer. “I shake hands on that, Richard.”SEARCH FOR MR. HYDEThat evening Mr. Utterson came home to his bachelor house in sombrespirits and sat down to dinner without relish. It was his custom of aSunday, when this meal was over, to sit close by the fire, a volume ofsome dry divinity on his reading desk, until the clock of theneighbouring church rang out the hour of twelve, when he would gosoberly and gratefully to bed. On this night however, as soon as thecloth was taken away, he took up a candle and went into his businessroom. There he opened his safe, took from the most private part of it adocument endorsed on the 