envelope as Dr. Jekyll’s Will and sat downwith a clouded brow to study its contents. The will was holograph, forMr. Utterson though he took charge of it now that it was made, hadrefused to lend the least assistance in the making of it; it providednot only that, in case of the decease of Henry Jekyll, M.D., D.C.L.,L.L.D., F.R.S., etc., all his possessions were to pass into the handsof his “friend and benefactor Edward Hyde,” but that in case of Dr.
Jekyll’s“disappearance or unexplained absence for any period exceedingthree calendar months,” the said Edward Hyde should step into the saidHenry Jekyll’s shoes without further delay and free from any burthen orobligation beyond the payment of a few small sums to the members of thedoctor’s household. This document had long been the lawyer’s eyesore.
Itoffended him both as a lawyer and as a lover of the sane andcustomary sides of life, to whom the fanciful was the immodest. Andhitherto it was his ignorance of Mr. Hyde that had swelled hisindignation; now, by a sudden turn, it was his knowledge. It wasalready bad enough when the name was but a name of which he could learnno more. It was worse when it began to be clothed upon with detestableattributes; and out of the shifting, insubstantial mists that had solong baffled his eye, there leaped up the sudden, definite presentmentof a fiend.

“Ithought it was madness,” he said, as he replaced the obnoxious paperin the safe, “and now I begin to fear it is disgrace.”With that he blew out his candle, put on a greatcoat, and set forth inthe direction of Cavendish Square, that citadel of medicine, where hisfriend, the great Dr. Lanyon, had his house and received his crowdingpatients. “If anyone knows, it will be Lanyon,” he had thought.

Thesolemn butler knew and welcomed him; he was subjected to no stageof delay, but ushered direct from the door to the dining-room where Dr.
Lanyonsat alone over his wine. This was a hearty, healthy, dapper,red-faced gentleman, with a shock of hair prematurely white, and aboisterous and decided manner. At sight of Mr. Utterson, he sprang upfrom his chair and welcomed him with both hands. The geniality, as wasthe way of the man, was somewhat theatrical to the eye; but it reposedon genuine feeling. For these two were old friends, old mates both atschool and college, both thorough respectors of themselves and of eachother, and what does not always follow, men who thoroughly enjoyed eachother’s company.

Aftera little rambling talk, the lawyer led up to the subject which sodisagreeably preoccupied his mind.

“Isuppose, Lanyon,” said he, “you and I must be the two oldest friendsthat Henry Jekyll has?”“I wish the friends were younger,” chuckled Dr. Lanyon. “But I supposewe are. And what of that? I see little of him now.”“Indeed?” said Utterson. “I thought you had a bond of common interest.”“We had,” was the reply. “But it is more than ten years since HenryJekyll became too fanciful for me. He began to go wrong, wrong 