in mind;and though of course I continue to take an interest in him for oldsake’s sake, as they say, I see and I have seen devilish little of theman. Such unscientific balderdash,” added the doctor, flushing suddenlypurple, “would have estranged Damon and Pythias.”This little spirit of temper was somewhat of a relief to Mr. Utterson.
“Theyhave only differed on some point of science,” he thought; andbeing a man of no scientific passions (except in the matter ofconveyancing), he even added: “It is nothing worse than that!” He gavehis friend a few seconds to recover his composure, and then approachedthe question he had come to put. “Did you ever come across a _protégé_of his—one Hyde?” he asked.

“Hyde?”repeated Lanyon. “No. Never heard of him. Since my time.”That was the amount of information that the lawyer carried back withhim to the great, dark bed on which he tossed to and fro, until thesmall hours of the morning began to grow large. It was a night oflittle ease to his toiling mind, toiling in mere darkness and besiegedby questions.

Sixo’clock struck on the bells of the church that was so convenientlynear to Mr. Utterson’s dwelling, and still he was digging at theproblem. Hitherto it had touched him on the intellectual side alone;but now his imagination also was engaged, or rather enslaved; and as helay and tossed in the gross darkness of the night and the curtainedroom, Mr. Enfield’s tale went by before his mind in a scroll of lightedpictures. He would be aware of the great field of lamps of a nocturnalcity; then of the figure of a man walking swiftly; then of a childrunning from the doctor’s; and then these met, and that humanJuggernaut trod the child down and passed on regardless of her screams.
Orelse he would see a room in a rich house, where his friend layasleep, dreaming and smiling at his dreams; and then the door of thatroom would be opened, the curtains of the bed plucked apart, thesleeper recalled, and lo! there would stand by his side a figure towhom power was given, and even at that dead hour, he must rise and doits bidding. The figure in these two phases haunted the lawyer allnight; and if at any time he dozed over, it was but to see it glidemore stealthily through sleeping houses, or move the more swiftly andstill the more swiftly, even to dizziness, through wider labyrinths oflamplighted city, and at every street corner crush a child and leaveher screaming. And still the figure had no face by which he might knowit; even in his dreams, it had no face, or one that baffled him andmelted before his eyes; and thus it was that there sprang up and grewapace in the lawyer’s mind a singularly strong, almost an inordinate,curiosity to behold the features of the real Mr. Hyde. If he could butonce set eyes on him, he thought the mystery would lighten and perhapsroll altogether away, as was the habit of mysterious things when wellexamined. He 