might see a reason for his friend’s strange preference orbondage (call it which you please) and even for the startling clause ofthe will. At least it would be a face worth seeing: the face of a manwho was without bowels of mercy: a face which had but to show itself toraise up, in the mind of the unimpressionable Enfield, a spirit ofenduring hatred.

Fromthat time forward, Mr. Utterson began to haunt the door in theby-street of shops. In the morning before office hours, at noon whenbusiness was plenty and time scarce, at night under the face of thefogged city moon, by all lights and at all hours of solitude orconcourse, the lawyer was to be found on his chosen post.

“Ifhe be Mr. Hyde,” he had thought, “I shall be Mr. Seek.”And at last his patience was rewarded. It was a fine dry night; frostin the air; the streets as clean as a ballroom floor; the lamps,unshaken by any wind, drawing a regular pattern of light and shadow. Byten o’clock, when the shops were closed, the by-street was verysolitary and, in spite of the low growl of London from all round, verysilent. Small sounds carried far; domestic sounds out of the houseswere clearly audible on either side of the roadway; and the rumour ofthe approach of any passenger preceded him by a long time. Mr. Uttersonhad been some minutes at his post, when he was aware of an odd lightfootstep drawing near. In the course of his nightly patrols, he hadlong grown accustomed to the quaint effect with which the footfalls ofa single person, while he is still a great way off, suddenly spring outdistinct from the vast hum and clatter of the city. Yet his attentionhad never before been so sharply and decisively arrested; and it waswith a strong, superstitious prevision of success that he withdrew intothe entry of the court.

Thesteps drew swiftly nearer, and swelled out suddenly louder as theyturned the end of the street. The lawyer, looking forth from the entry,could soon see what manner of man he had to deal with. He was small andvery plainly dressed and the look of him, even at that distance, wentsomehow strongly against the watcher’s inclination. But he madestraight for the door, crossing the roadway to save time; and as hecame, he drew a key from his pocket like one approaching home.

Mr.Utterson stepped out and touched him on the shoulder as he passed.
“Mr.Hyde, I think?”Mr. Hyde shrank back with a hissing intake of the breath. But his fearwas only momentary; and though he did not look the lawyer in the face,he answered coolly enough: “That is my name. What do you want?”“I see you are going in,” returned the lawyer. “I am an old friend ofDr. Jekyll’s—Mr. Utterson of Gaunt Street—you must have heard of myname; and meeting you so conveniently, I thought you might admit me.”“You will not find Dr. Jekyll; he is from home,” replied Mr. Hyde,blowing in the key. And then suddenly, but still 