without looking up,“How did you know me?” he asked.

“Onyour side,” said Mr. Utterson “will you do me a favour?”“With pleasure,” replied the other. “What shall it be?”“Will you let me see your face?” asked the lawyer.

Mr.Hyde appeared to hesitate, and then, as if upon some suddenreflection, fronted about with an air of defiance; and the pair staredat each other pretty fixedly for a few seconds. “Now I shall know youagain,” said Mr. Utterson. “It may be useful.”“Yes,” returned Mr. Hyde, “It is as well we have met; and _à propos_,you should have my address.” And he gave a number of a street in Soho.

“GoodGod!” thought Mr. Utterson, “can he, too, have been thinking ofthe will?” But he kept his feelings to himself and only grunted inacknowledgment of the address.

“Andnow,” said the other, “how did you know me?”“By description,” was the reply.

“Whosedescription?”“We have common friends,” said Mr. Utterson.

“Commonfriends,” echoed Mr. Hyde, a little hoarsely. “Who are they?”“Jekyll, for instance,” said the lawyer.

“Henever told you,” cried Mr. Hyde, with a flush of anger. “I did notthink you would have lied.”“Come,” said Mr. Utterson, “that is not fitting language.”The other snarled aloud into a savage laugh; and the next moment, withextraordinary quickness, he had unlocked the door and disappeared intothe house.

Thelawyer stood awhile when Mr. Hyde had left him, the picture ofdisquietude. Then he began slowly to mount the street, pausing everystep or two and putting his hand to his brow like a man in mentalperplexity. The problem he was thus debating as he walked, was one of aclass that is rarely solved. Mr. Hyde was pale and dwarfish, he gave animpression of deformity without any nameable malformation, he had adispleasing smile, he had borne himself to the lawyer with a sort ofmurderous mixture of timidity and boldness, and he spoke with a husky,whispering and somewhat broken voice; all these were points againsthim, but not all of these together could explain the hitherto unknowndisgust, loathing and fear with which Mr. Utterson regarded him. “Theremust be something else,” said the perplexed gentleman. “There _is_something more, if I could find a name for it. God bless me, the manseems hardly human! Something troglodytic, shall we say? or can it bethe old story of Dr. Fell? or is it the mere radiance of a foul soulthat thus transpires through, and transfigures, its clay continent? Thelast, I think; for, O my poor old Harry Jekyll, if ever I read Satan’ssignature upon a face, it is on that of your new friend.”Round the corner from the by-street, there was a square of ancient,handsome houses, now for the most part decayed from their high estateand let in flats and chambers to all sorts and conditions of men;map-engravers, architects, shady lawyers and the agents of obscureenterprises. One house, however, second from the corner, was stilloccupied entire; and at the door of this, which wore a great air ofwealth and comfort, though it was now plunged in darkness except forthe fanlight, Mr. Utterson 