stopped and knocked. A well-dressed, elderlyservant opened the door.

“IsDr. Jekyll at home, Poole?” asked the lawyer.

“Iwill see, Mr. Utterson,” said Poole, admitting the visitor, as hespoke, into a large, low-roofed, comfortable hall paved with flags,warmed (after the fashion of a country house) by a bright, open fire,and furnished with costly cabinets of oak. “Will you wait here by thefire, sir? or shall I give you a light in the dining-room?”“Here, thank you,” said the lawyer, and he drew near and leaned on thetall fender. This hall, in which he was now left alone, was a pet fancyof his friend the doctor’s; and Utterson himself was wont to speak ofit as the pleasantest room in London. But tonight there was a shudderin his blood; the face of Hyde sat heavy on his memory; he felt (whatwas rare with him) a nausea and distaste of life; and in the gloom ofhis spirits, he seemed to read a menace in the flickering of thefirelight on the polished cabinets and the uneasy starting of theshadow on the roof. He was ashamed of his relief, when Poole presentlyreturned to announce that Dr. Jekyll was gone out.

“Isaw Mr. Hyde go in by the old dissecting room, Poole,” he said. “Isthat right, when Dr. Jekyll is from home?”“Quite right, Mr. Utterson, sir,” replied the servant. “Mr. Hyde has akey.”“Your master seems to repose a great deal of trust in that young man,Poole,” resumed the other musingly.

“Yes,sir, he does indeed,” said Poole. “We have all orders to obeyhim.”“I do not think I ever met Mr. Hyde?” asked Utterson.

“O,dear no, sir. He never _dines_ here,” replied the butler. “Indeedwe see very little of him on this side of the house; he mostly comesand goes by the laboratory.”“Well, good-night, Poole.”“Good-night, Mr. Utterson.”And the lawyer set out homeward with a very heavy heart. “Poor HarryJekyll,” he thought, “my mind misgives me he is in deep waters! He waswild when he was young; a long while ago to be sure; but in the law ofGod, there is no statute of limitations. Ay, it must be that; the ghostof some old sin, the cancer of some concealed disgrace: punishmentcoming, _pede claudo_, years after memory has forgotten and self-lovecondoned the fault.” And the lawyer, scared by the thought, broodedawhile on his own past, groping in all the corners of memory, least bychance some Jack-in-the-Box of an old iniquity should leap to lightthere. His past was fairly blameless; few men could read the rolls oftheir life with less apprehension; yet he was humbled to the dust bythe many ill things he had done, and raised up again into a sober andfearful gratitude by the many he had come so near to doing yet avoided.
Andthen by a return on his former subject, he conceived a spark ofhope. “This Master Hyde, if he were studied,” thought he, “must havesecrets of his own; black secrets, by the look of him; secrets comparedto which poor Jekyll’s worst would be like sunshine. Things cannotcontinue 